README.md, before:

![Run Streak](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fisbecker%2Fstreak-tracker%2Fmain%2Fstreak.json&query=%24.total_count&label=Run%20Streak&color=lawngreen)

# Garmin Connect Streak Tracker

This is a simple script that allows you to login to Garmin Connect and track your current run streak.

## Installation

First, you should install nix. Not strictly necessary, but it makes things easier.
Otherwise, you will need to install the dependencies manually.

## Components

- nix
  - [direnv](https://github.com/direnv/direnv)
  - [devenv](https://devenv.sh)
- [just](https://github.com/casey/just)
  - run `just -l` to see what tasks are supported
- python

## Usage

### Nix-based development environment

This one liner will install the dependencies and drop you into a shell with them available.

```console
nix develop --impure
```

From there, you can run `just -l` to see what tasks are supported.

### Login

In order to use this script, you need to login to Garmin Connect and save the session tokens. This project uses [cyberjunky/python-garminconnect](https://github.com/cyberjunky/python-garminconnect/) (which uses [matin/garth](https://github.com/matin/garth) for auth). You will be prompted for your email and password.

Assuming you are already in the nix development environment, you can run the following command to login.

```console
just login
```

Once you have the login tokens, you can save them in `.env.local`. The `.envrc` file will automatically load this file, if it exists. See `.env` for the required variables.

If you are not in the devenv shell, you can run this one-liner to login. This is how the GitHub Action works (although that doesn't use the login command; see below).

```console
nix develop --impure --command just login
```

### Track a run

If you have done a run today, you can run the following command to update your streak.

```console
just ran
```

And if you aren't in the devenv shell:

```console
nix develop --impure --command just ran
```

Commit message:

docs: updates readme with more details

README.md, after:

# Garmin Connect Streak Tracker

[![Run Streak](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fisbecker%2Fstreak-tracker%2Fmain%2Fstreak.json&query=%24.total_count&suffix=%20days&style=for-the-badge&label=%F0%9F%8F%83%20Run%20Streak&color=lawngreen&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fisbecker%2Fstreak-tracker)](https://github.com/isbecker/streak-tracker)

This is a simple script that allows you to login to Garmin Connect and track your current run streak.

## Installation

First, you should install nix. Not strictly necessary, but it makes things easier.
Otherwise, you will need to install the dependencies manually.

## Components

- python3
- [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)

### Optional

If you want to have a simple development experience, you can install nix.
Then, you can use the `nix develop` command to drop into a shell with all the dependencies installed.

- [nix](https://nixos.org/)
- [direnv](https://github.com/direnv/direnv)
  - `direnv` is a shell extension that will automatically load the nix environment when you enter the directory.
- [devenv](https://devenv.sh)
  - `devenv` is a convenient nix-powered development environment manager.
- [just](https://github.com/casey/just)
  - `just` is a command runner. It is similar to `make`, but it is written in rust and has a nicer syntax.
  - run `just -l` to see what tasks are supported

## Usage

### Nix-based development environment

This one liner will install the dependencies and drop you into a shell with them available.

```console
nix develop --impure
```

From there, you can run `just -l` to see what tasks are supported.

### Login

In order to use this script, you need to login to Garmin Connect and save the session tokens. This project uses [cyberjunky/python-garminconnect](https://github.com/cyberjunky/python-garminconnect/) (which uses [matin/garth](https://github.com/matin/garth) for auth). You will be prompted for your email and password.

Assuming you are already in the nix development environment, you can run the following command to login.

```console
just login
```

Once you have the login tokens, you can save them in `.env.local`. The `.envrc` file will automatically load this file, if it exists. See [`.env`](.env) for the required variables.

If you are not in the devenv shell, you can run this one-liner to login. This is how the GitHub Action works (although that doesn't use the login command; see below).

```console
nix develop --impure --command just login
```

### Track a run

If you have done a run today, you can run the following command to update your streak.

```console
just ran
```

And if you aren't in the devenv shell:

```console
nix develop --impure --command just ran
```
